Hello and welcome back to the course on databases in today's tutorial we're going to define and learn
about two new terms which we haven't come across before.
These are the prime and non-prime attributes now will need these terms to understand better and actually
operate in the space of normalization.
So before we proceed with the tutorials on that subject we're going to take some time to really understand
these two new terms and let that knowledge sink in.
So let's dive straight into it.
But before we proceed there's one thing that you need to make sure of and that is that you're entirely
comfortable with the terms candidate key and functional dependency.
So those terms were previously in the course and if you're not entirely comfortable with either of those
terms and I highly recommend jumping back to that tutorial and reviewing it and understanding a candidate
what a candidate key is and what a functional dependency is and then coming back to this tutorial to
proceed further.
So here we've got an example of a table that's going to help us illustrate the terms prime and non-prime
attributes.
First thing that we're going to do is let's identify all of the candidate keys in this table and this
table is actually only one candidate key which is a Platy.
So basically what that means is that employee I.D. this can this attribute this column a uniquely identifies
any any of the rules.
So basically knowing the employee ID or all of these roles in here they have a unique employee ID and
the employee I.D. identifies these.
And so if you think of it in human terms as if you have an employee I.D. If you're working at this company
you have an employee I.D. or you're in H.R. and you're you are given as an employee I.D. and you need
to look up information that's exactly how you're going to address this table you're going to go in and
search for that employee idea and then you'll find out the name the department I.D. and department name.
And a quick caveat here is that we're going off the premises that an employee can only work in one department
so basically in this table we don't have you know we don't have duplicate employees were the same employee
twice working for different departments so it's a given that an employee can only work for one department
and that makes employee ID the only candidate key in this table.
So now no know another we know the candidate keys which there is only one of it's very easy to understand
what prime and non-prime attributes are basically prime attributes are all those attributes or columns.
That's as a synonym for columns a prime attributes are all those columns that are parts of candidates.
So in this case we only have one prime attribute and that simply ID and non-prime attributes are all
of the columns or attributes that are not part of any candidate.
In this case we have three employee name department ID and department name.
So that was easy.
It's very simple it's a very simple concept once you are comfortable with the term of a candidate.
OK next let's try another example.
So here we've got another table which is a bit more tricky here.
We know we need to find the candidate.
Right.
So what is a candidate.
Let's have a look.
Well a candidate keeps a column or a group of columns that uniquely identifies the rows in the data
set.
Right so let's say tournament right.
Can we say that the tournament by itself is a candidate.
Well not really because tournaments repeat right.
As the years pass tournaments repeat and here we've got Indiana Invitational Indiana notational and
therefore if you were to say that this is your this is a candidate key meaning that it's a uniquely
identify as a rose you would be wrong because if you just look at this table look up a role in this
table based on the tournament versus Indiana notational you will get two rows and rows corresponding
to that value.
Also it doesn't stop there.
We don't just look at the rows that we have in the table we look at the whole logic of the table so
even if we didn't have this row we would still be able to extrapolate.
And you know just through logic say that we have to be honest here that in the future as we add more
records in the future years you know Cleveland open will repeat again and therefore the tournament is
not a tournament column is not a candy cane or any of these tournaments can repeat again of the year
so by itself it's not a candidate.
All right.
So is the your column a candidate.
Again it's not because in one year you can have several tournaments for example 1999 here there were
three tournaments and probably they could it could be more maybe more will be added.
So that's not a candidate.
And this table's tournament winners so maybe the winner is a candidate key.
Nope it's not because a person can be a winner in multiple tournaments in multiple different years.
So definitely not that winner.
A date of birth.
Also not a how can a kid it make sense.
Right.
So if you.
The way to think about it is kind of the best way to approach these problems because now we have to
look at combinations we could look at year plus winner or when a plus when and date of birth year plus
tournament and then maybe look at Commission of three and so on.
But the safest way to look at it is to look at all look for the reason or the purpose of this table
the purpose of this table to show us tournament winners and tournament winners for what.
For tournaments and tournaments if you think about it or happen only once per year.
So the Indiana intensional happens once every year Cleveland open also happens once a year and one masters
also happens once a year and so on.
So basically if you take the combination of these two that will be a candidate Keino.
Right.
And then any other combinations of columns for a year and winner that's not a candidate.
And you could just check this on your own tournament and winner.
That's not a candidate.
And also just stems from Again the purpose of this table.
It's send that you are an winner cannot be the candidate key just by looking at the purpose of the table
because this table talks about tournaments and then there winners rather than the winners in the years.
So you can further investigate that and look a different combination of columns.
But basically the only candidate here key here is the combination of these two cards tournament and
year.
And this means that our prime attributes are tournament and year and our non-prime attributes our winner
and winner date of birth.
Because these two columns are not in any candidate key.
All right.
So hopefully that's all pretty straightforward stuff so far and let's have a look at another example.
We've got an example a table for electric trees brush models and we've got calls manufacture a model
model full name and manufacturer country.
So I'm going to challenge you to pose this video and think about this table in the terms that we were
thinking about the previous of the previous table and try to identify what the prime attributes are
and what's the non-prime attributes.
And I'll give you a hint that there is actually a bit of a catch in this table.
It's a bit even more trickier than the previous one.
So if you'd like to take the challenge and a video now.
Otherwise I'm going to go ahead and explain the way I would think about this challenge and how I would
go about solving.
So let's have a look.
Electric toothbrush.
So obviously you can see that for say ex-prime and forcer ultra clean.
So basically model full name is a combination of manufacturer and model and probably the person who
designed this database or designed this table was actually going for that exact goal for exactly that
they wanted to create a column that's going to be the primary key of the table.
So this is going to identify every single role and maybe they even specified that as a primary key in
the table itself.
But that doesn't prevent these two.
The combination of these two from being a candidate key as well.
So in reality in this table we actually have a candidate key manufacturer and model.
And we have the candidate key model full name.
So both of these are valid.
So this is a valid candidate.
And the combination of these two is about.
Q So if you think about it every so this column uniquely identify every role but also the combination
of these two columns unique identifies every row.
And this last column manufacturer country is not a candidate key or it's not part of any candidate.
And you can check that by looking a few combinations.
And basically what that means is that we've got three prime attributes and one non prime attribute.
So basically to sum up prime attributes are attributes or columns which belong to any candidate key
and non-parametric beauts are columns which don't belong or so primarily as our columns which belong
to at least one candidate key and could be any candidate key non-prime attributes are columns which
don't belong to any candidate.
All right so hopefully that's enough practice to let that knowledge sink in and from here we are ready
to proceed with the theory of normalization which is going to be very exciting.
Can't wait to get started.
And I look forward to seeing you then.
Until next time happy analyzing.